---
slug: table-calculations
title: 'Table Calculations'
tags: [New, Fixed and Improved]
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import {Stars, Hammer, FancyTitle} from '@site/src/components/FancyTitle';

### <FancyTitle icon={Stars}>New Features</FancyTitle>

**Table Calculations**.
You can now perform calculations directly without having to create a separate calculation block. To use formulas in tables, just type “=” in a cell, or use the menu to change the column type to formula. Don’t worry, creating tables with the language is still available to anyone who needs extra power.

We’ve also added **smart rows** to make quick calculations easier to perform, some examples are `sum()`and `average()` .

**Hiding Blocks -** Now you can hide blocks when you share your notebooks for an improved reading experience. These blocks will still be available if someone duplicates your notebook

**New language syntax for decision tables** - Taxes, Sales Commissions are now easier to create and read. Learn more here: [https://app.decipad.com/docs/language/advanced-concepts/decision-tables](https://dev.decipad.com/docs/language/advanced-concepts/decision-tables)

**Chart Image** - Calculation blocks now display a small chart image on custom formulas for improved readability.

**Factorials** - We now support factorials on the language (`factorial()`)


### <FancyTitle icon={Hammer}>Fixes and Improvements</FancyTitle>


- Better number support (25000$ → $25K)
- Results now default to a human-readable format: 1,000→ 1 thousand, and 1,000,000 → 1 million. When you drag results into your text, they will also be easier to read. Roll-over to see the precise result. Soon, you will be able to customize the formatting based on your needs.
- Better support for percentages. (5% + 10% → 15%)
- Insert an image to your notebook by simply pasting a link.
- Fix double menu tip on paragraphs.
- Several tables bug fixes.
