---
title: 'Weekly Roundup May 30'
tags: [Fixed and Improved]
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import {Stars, Hammer, FancyTitle} from '@site/src/components/FancyTitle';

### <FancyTitle icon={Hammer}>Fixes and Improvements</FancyTitle>

- **Workspace Search:** Use the search bar at the top of your workspace to easily find notebooks by name. You can also filter notebooks based on their visibility (published or unpublished) and status (draft, review, approval, done) to quickly locate the notebooks you need.
- **Sections to organize your notebooks:** You now have section on your workspace sidebar to label your notebooks. Click on `+ New Section` in the workspace sidebar to add a new section and drag and drop notebooks into sections to categorize them.
- **With this update we are introducing the `first` keyword for table formulas.** It let's you add logic to your formulas by checking for the first row. For example, it allows you to showcase a different message on the first row: `if first then "I am the first row" else "I am not the first row"`. Or compute income increases based on a set value from a slider: `if first then IncomeSlider else previous(0) + 5%`.
- **Enhanced flexibility in table formulas**. Previously, you could only reference columns to the left of the current formula, but now you can reference any column in your table, providing more versatility when putting tables together.
- **New layout options with side-by-side paragraphs, callouts, quotes, and images.** Simply drag these elements to the side and release when you see a vertical line to stack them together. These elements can be stacked with each other and widgets.
- **Improved styles for block multi-selection**, now compatible with dark mode. You can select multiple blocks by clicking and dragging from the side of your notebook, making it easier to rearrange content.
- Duplicating an archived notebook now moves it to your workspace instead of your archive.
- Formulas no longer cause crashes when using negative currencies with parentheses.
- Editing widget names no longer affects their height.
- Table formulas are now non-editable for readers.
- Table autocomplete was fixed to insert the correct columns.
