---
title: 'Weekly Roundup Mar 22
'
tags: [Fixed and Improved]
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import {Stars, Hammer, FancyTitle} from '@site/src/components/FancyTitle';


## Improved Shorthand Notation for Currencies

We have optimized how you define currencies in your notebook. Here’s what's new:

- **Support for multiple currency notations.** You can now express currencies in a more flexible ways. For example, 2 billion dollars can now be express as: $2 billion, $2B, $2 000 000 000 or $2 000M.
- **Support for different conventions,** such as $5 or 5$.
- **Improved multipliers**, such as thousands ($K), millions ($M) and billion ($B); not case sensitive.

**Temporary Implications**

These new changes may have side effects in a small number of existing notebooks and could potentially break your models. Here is what’s affected:

- **Shorthand notation for distances which include m, mm, cm are temporarily not supported.** With the above changes, M and m is now notion for million. You can still use the long format meters, millimeters and centimeters.
- **New reserved variable names, K,M,B, Thousand, Million, Billion**. This means that you can no longer use these names as a variable name. To fix affected notebooks, replace these variable names with new ones.

We’re exploring ways to support these limitations again in the future. In the meantime, if any of your notebooks have been affected, you can reach out to support, and we will help you upgrade the notebook.


## Charts are easier to use with an improved design

We’ve made some changes to the way charts work in notebooks to make them easier to use. Here’s what’s new:

- **Easily insert a chart to your notebook.** You can add a pie, bar, line, or scatter chart from the block menu or directly from a table.
- **Adjust settings with an improved menu.** You can now choose new colors, updated data sources, and change its labels or values.
- **Hover to see results**: You can now hover over any section of a chart to see its results, making it easier to analyze and understand your data.
- **New Color Pallet:** We've updated color palettes with dark-mode support, allowing you to customize the look and feel of your charts.

### <FancyTitle icon={Hammer}>Fixes and Improvements</FancyTitle>

- **New notebook with placeholder examples**. When you create a new notebook, some examples will be added automatically. You can clear all examples by clicking the 'Clear All' button at the end of your notebook.
- **Autocomplete has been improved to help you create formulas faster**. It now shows the syntax for each formulas and has better suggestions.
- **Tables have been updated to prevent accidentally inserting rows.** The + button to add/insert rows into a table was replaced. You can now add/insert rows by clicking each row menu and choosing to insert a row above or below.
- **The Numbers Catalog, which provides a summary of your notebook, is now open by default,** to help you navigate the numbers.
- **We have introduced new formulas to help you reuse numbers with units.** Now you can remove the units on a formula using `stripunit()`, or get the units a formula is using with `getunit()`.
- You can now extract the day, month, year or quarter from a date. Here’s an example of how to extract the day: `round(date(2023-03-20), day)`**.**
- Long emails no longer break the layout when you invite new teammates.
- Duplicating tables also keeps the formulas, instead of copying the data.
