---
title: 'Charts 2.0'
tags: [Fixed and Improved]
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import {Stars, Hammer, FancyTitle} from '@site/src/components/FancyTitle';

We are excited to announce our new-style charts! Revamping charts in Decipad has been on our minds for a while and we're very excited Charts 2.0 is live in the product!

- **New Chart Types & Styles**: Our charts got a makeover with new styles, colors, and types. You can now create combo (bar + line), funnel, and area charts, giving you more tools to craft compelling data narratives.

- **More Flexibility**: The level of flexibility in our previous charts was a bit limited. We have now added new customisation options like grid lines, data values & more.

- **Data Point Labels**: Hover over any data point in the chart to see it in more detail. We have also included percentage changes, so you can easily compare how your metric is performing compared to the previous period.

[Learn more about Notebook Charts](/quick-start/charts)

### <FancyTitle icon={Hammer}>Fixes and Improvements</FancyTitle>

- AI chat no longer opens by default on new notebooks.
- Improved typing speed on paragraphs and writing speed on tables.
- Improved drop lines and dragging animations.
- Table calculations are now faster.
- Importing data is now faster, allowing more rows in tables.
- The submit form now collects data from tables.
- Enhanced Integrations UI, now opens on the sidebar instead of a modal, and improved accessibility.
- Improved the Decipad language speed.
- Improved menu accessibility with scrollbars.
- Fixed the issue that prevented the slash command from opening at the bottom of the notebook.
- Fixed issues affecting menus with scrollbars.
- Inline results now work when moving source calculations across blocks.
- Fixed a crash when adding new data views.
- Fixed an issue when selecting columns and then dragging column results into text.
- Deleting a second integration no longer affects other integration tables in a notebook.
- Fixed inline numbers on some old browsers and iPhones.
- Notebook theme settings have been fixed.
- Exporting notebooks as PDF is now a backup option.
- Improved workspace button, now shows a home button instead of a back arrow.
- Fixed text formatting menu not opening.
- Fixed CSV calculations not propagating.
- Fixed CSV loading issues for readers.
- Download chart button no longer shows on all block types.
- Fixed inline results not showing when declared in other tabs.
- Resolved inline results not showing on iOS.
- Rounding on data views fixed.
- Corrected exponents of fractions of small numbers.
