---
title: 'Improved Charts'
tags: [Fixed and Improved]
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

import {Stars, Hammer, FancyTitle} from '@site/src/components/FancyTitle';

With this release, we've made significant enhancements to charts.

1. **New Chart Types:** Combine bar and line charts with combo charts, and create funnel and radar charts for more storytelling options.
2. **Stackable:** Place charts side by side to save space or compare metrics easily.
3. **More Flexible:** Now, you can plot multiple columns, turn off the chart grid, add axis labels, and flip orientation for greater customization.

[Learn more about Notebook Charts](/quick-start/charts)

### <FancyTitle icon={Hammer}>Fixes and Improvements</FancyTitle>

- AI chat no longer opens by default on new notebooks.
- Writing speed on tables has been improved.
- Improved drop lines and dragging animations.
- Table calculations are now faster.
- The submit form now collects data from tables.
- We improved the integrations UI to make it more accessible.
- We improved the Decipad language speed.
- Fixed the issue that prevented the slash command from opening at the bottom of the notebook.
- Fixed issues affecting menus with scrollbars.
- Inline results now work when moving source calculations across blocks.
- Fixed a crash when adding new data views.
- Fixed an issue when selecting columns and then dragging column results into text.
- Deleting a second integration no longer affects other integration tables in a notebook.
- Inline numbers weren’t working on some old browsers and iPhones; this has been fixed.
- Notebook theme settings have been fixed.
